---
layout: post
title: "college campuses"
date: 2022-02-28
categories:
---

## a world of movement

A college campus is a world of movement. From the filing of cloth bookbags and trendy outfits following the conclusion of carefully staggered lecture timings, to the animated hand movements mandated by one-on-one coffee chats, to the competitive jumping and dashing spurred by the perpetually existing game of spikeball, there’s always a sense of motion on college campus, a million different gears spinning together in different directions. In New York, the campus and city spill into each other, the never-sleeping bustle bleeding together as the delineation between academic discipline and diverse entropy cease to exist.

A college campus is a superorganism of sorts, veins shaped by the paths students take to and from courses, hearts defined by dining halls where students congregate at fixed hours, mood pervaded by thousands of anxiously excited young people venturing out into the world for the first time. It is something that you never thought of dying, but when the cardboard moving boxes are being unfolded, zoom links are being forwarded, when fitting a blue piece of cloth over your mouth becomes muscle memory, you notice its death.

I was never bothered, at least not at first. My friends and I, being individuals that thrived on nerdy activities such as video games or chatting about random sci-fi universes or technological developments, felt strangely acclimated to such a world. Perhaps the outside world was devoid of movement, but the online one was more alive than ever. I lived with a small group of friends, buckled down on my work, graduating early and landing my dream job. Such a death wasn’t a true death, as it could only be temporary—when vaccines finished development, the campus would breathe back to life.

I ended up choosing to come to grad school on the west coast, mainly because after nearly two years, I missed the vibrant experiences that were enabled by a prospering campus. I came to the towering, shiny-new dorms of Stanford, head full of visions of reclaiming a college youth taken from me as the world around me had sickened. Instead, my hopes were quickly replaced with a sense of regret, wondering about my past decisions as instead of a world of motion, the world around me quickly stagnated. My peers in graduate school had lived their college youth years already, unimpressed by the notion of bringing back to life the superorganism, content instead with pursuing problems in the corners of academia or grander individualistic plans to ascend society. The distance between myself and undergraduates my age/older than me were physical and social—as my disappointment increased, so did my motivation to chase my vision of the old world.

An electronic whir followed by metallic clicking as large automated doors open up ahead breaks my thoughts as I’m walking to my friend’s place for a small cocktail night. Loud chatter and laughter spills out along with a large group of undergrads—it is a Friday night after a long week of midterms, and this is the one undergraduate dorm in a sea of graduate residences, an island of movement in a stagnant pool. Oblivious to their surroundings, the group surges down the path towards a collection of chairs and tables, drinks still in hand. It is a nice time to go outside—tonight is one of those Californian nights, where a slight sprinkle is present in the air, yet everything is still strangely dry and pleasingly temperate like a towel after a warm shower. As we cross paths, I look briefly at the familiar faces of strangers, the group having formed into conversation bundles of three to four. The chatter fades into silence as I continue moving forward into the night, as the yellow lights leading my way glow unwaveringly and the nighttime mist stands still in the air.
