---
layout: post
title: "writing ideas"
date: 2022-08-01
categories:
---

## three year productive thinking anniversary

It's been exactly three years since I wrote the first post on this blog. At the start, there were two reasons for this blog: the first was to keep myself accountable as I strove to become more productive and grow as an individual, and the second was to push myself to think deeply through interesting ideas. These two components lead to the two words in the name of the blog (productive thinking) and is also the reason why all my blog posts have two words in the title. There was a third, more indirect reason, which was to keep my writing skills from becoming rusty as I foresaw that I'd be writing very little within my engineering program at Columbia. Over time, each one of these reasons have faded away, and as a result, my blog posts today look very different from when they looked like when I first started out.

The productivity/accountability side of things just naturally faded as I exited my obsession with productivity obsession phase, a phase that I've noticed is rather common at these hyper-academic, elite college institutions. Perhaps this was not a good thing as I've definitely been a lot less productive these past couple years, but it isn't something that bothers me much (I will have the occasional twinge where I wish I was better at software development). The reason behind stopping my daily habit of thinking through/writing down interesting ideas is also clear to me. At a certain point, writing these blog posts was taking up a large amount of both time as well as headspace that I could've been using on other work. Once I got busier and had bigger priorities, spending one or two hours a day on blogging simply wasn't sustainable.

I read my earliest posts last night, and I couldn't help but feel like the quality of my posts has decreased since those days. In an attempt to make blogging regularly more sustainable, I forced myself to proofread less and care less about quality—those first couple of posts took around three hours, which I can normally crank out in an hour or so. Yet that change didn't even result in its intended effect—nowadays, months pass before I recall the existence of my blog, I compile a macro view of changes in my life, and I post it on here in a fashion that reads like an esoteric diary entry. At this point, the purpose behind my blog has shifted to one that's far more conventional—it provides a way for me to log events in my life as well as briefly think about changes I'd like to imbue for the future.

## purposes

Something that I currently struggle a lot with while working on my startup in purpose, not in the grand "what is the meaning of life" way but rather figuring out a reason for whatever specific piece of work I'm spending time on in that moment. I might be reading an article on a topic that's in whatever startup idea space I'm exploring at the time–it feels productive, but without having a reason for reading the article/gaining some takeaway, I might as well have saved both my time/mental energy as it didn't contribute anything to moving startup progress forward. This extends to many things I do at work: checking out a startup's software tooling in the space, working on a side project to gain more coding experience, reading interesting news articles on the startup landscape, there are many hours in my work day and the list goes on. The other side of the equation is tough too—because I want the thing that I'm currently working on to have the largest possible impact, I often just end up not doing many of the aforementioned little things that, lumped together, are probably better than just sitting around wondering what to do. Both feeling like you're not making progress or feeling lost are demoralizing.

This sort of reasoning extends a lot to how I generally think about how I spend my time. I work out because I like how it makes me look and physically feel, and also because it's a really good mental break from thiking in front of a computer all day. I play video games because it's really fun/makes me happy, and most of all, it provides me a way to keep making memories with my friends as well as make new friends. I could keep generating examples, but I can pretty confidently say that I can easily think of the reasons why I do certain things–it might not be the best or the most correct reason, but I can decipher the honest reasons behind why I do the things I do.

I've written many times on this blog that I want to blog more often for X reason. I rarely ever do—in fact, I'm pretty sure most of the time, I just forget about it the next day and the habit just dies with the initial post. I think this is because the reason that I list for doing so just isn't strong enough–without constant conscious reminder, motivation inevitably fades, and habits die. I honestly think that's fine—if you have strong enough reasons for doing things, as long as those reasons hold strong, then your habits will continue. If your habits die, then you probably didn't have that strong of a reason for doing so—now, if they're dying just because you don't think about said reasons, then that's a problem.

## writing and clarity of thought

I've noticed that writing about something, even something that I know very well, typically exposes that I don't know it very well at all. Putting ideas into sentences in a blog post is quite a test—it's different from even speaking thoughts out loud as it requires putting thoughts into a single, optimized stream of words. It's hard to get sentences perfect on the first pass through, and without proofreading/editing, it makes more sense that I feel my blog posts nowadays are lower quality than my initial posts. Ideas pre-writing are not only ill-understood but also incomplete—I typically have some idea of what I want to write about before I start, and then I end up writing twice as much as intended about some random tangential idea that came up in the midst of writing (e.g. I set out to write only this section on writing down ideas, but I ended up also writing the preceding section on purposes). Some of the ideas that I initially intend to write about end up being left out simply because the post thread diverges too much from the original thoughts. A lot of ideas I just end up splicing back into the essay once I'm finished with a tangent, with varying degrees of fluidity in transition.

The thing I find most impressive about successful founders is their apparent clarity of thought. Perhaps they know these concepts so intimately or they've practiced communicating so much that it only seems that way to me, but regardless, I think being able to break down/communicate concepts clearly is one of the most valuable skills to have when building a startup/working with cofounders. I envy a lot of these successful founders for precisely this ability.

Writing blog posts proves to me ideas in my head can feel complete before trying to put them into writing proves that they're quite incomplete. This also means that ideas that I haven't put in writing are going to be not fully formed. I also believe that I'm better at forming ideas through writing relative to verbal communication—both are areas I want to work on with the expressed purpose of improving general clarity of thought. To that end, I'm going to start putting more ideas in writing, whether that's startup research threads or blog posts (or possibly both!). Anywho, if this motivation holds, hopefully that'll mean I'll be updating you all on here more often :).


